\section{Background and Motivation}\label{sec:motivation}

In this section we discuss recent advancements and limitations in stream cipher
based Full Drive Encryption (FDE), then provide \numCases case studies that
motivate our work.


% =======================================================
\subsection{The Homogeneous FDE Problem}

The major issue with FDE is its homogeneous nature; users must commit to one FDE
storage configuration at initialization time~\cite{dmcrypt}. Suppose we have an
ultra-low-voltage netbook provided by our employer who requires that the drive
is fully encrypted at all times and is constantly backed up to an offsite
system. Given that the FDE industry standard is AES-XTS, we consider
initializing our drive with it. At this point, three primary concerns present
themselves: performance, vulnerability and inflexibility.

First, it is well known that AES-XTS adds significant latency and power overhead
to I/O operations, especially on mobile and battery-constrained
devices~\cite{google-engadget, android-M-mobile-motivation,
android-M-mobile-motivation-2}. As this scenario requires the drive encrypted at
all times, we must accept this hit to performance and battery life. Worse, if
our device does not support hardware accelerated AES (which is hardly
ubiquitous) performance can be degraded even further; I/O latency can be as high
as 3--5x~\cite{StrongBox}. There are faster more energy-efficient stream ciphers
we might consider instead.

Second, AES-XTS is designed to mitigate threats to drive data ``at rest,'' which
assumes an attacker cannot access snapshots of our encrypted data nor manipulate
our data without those manipulations being immediately obvious to us. However,
access to multiple snapshots of a drive's AES-XTS-encrypted contents presents a
vulnerability---an attacker can passively glean information about the plaintext
over time by contrasting those snapshots, leading to confidentiality violations
in some situations~\cite{XEX, XTS}. Unfortunately, the backups required by this
scenario function as snapshots for an attacker. There are ciphertext randomizing
stream ciphers we can use that can be safely backed up, but they're known to add
latency and power overhead like AES-XTS.

Third, our device is battery constrained, placing a cap on our energy budget
that can change at any moment as we transition from line power to battery power
and back. Our storage system should respond to these changing requirements,
including reducing energy use when the OS wants to conserve power (i.e.
``battery saver'' functionality), all without violating any other concerns.


% =======================================================
\subsection{Recent Advancements}

Broadly speaking, an FDE storage system can be implemented in two ways: using
{\em block} ciphers or using {\em stream} ciphers. Block ciphers were the de
facto solution for storage while stream ciphers were prevalent in networking and
elsewhere. The relevant difference: encryption using a stream cipher is simpler
and thus faster than a block cipher, especially in software; however, stream
ciphers have their own non-trivial problems (\ie rollback attacks and
overwrites) and are hence not a drop-in replacement for block
ciphers~\cite{StrongBox}. There have been major advancements in the FDE
technology that moves us away from slower block ciphers and towards the adoption
of faster stream cipher based FDE~\cite{Adiantum, StrongBox}.

There are two technological shifts that enable secure, high-performance storage
with stream ciphers. First, devices today commonly employ solid-state storage
with Flash Translation Layers (FTL), which operate similarly to Log-structured
File Systems (LFS)~\cite{LFS, F2FS, NILFS}. The no in-place update
``overwrite-averse'' nature of FTL and LFS-like storage allows stream cipher
based FDE to be efficiently implemented (\eg ChaCha with F2FS performs on
average $1.72$Ã— better than ext4~\cite{StrongBox}). Second, mobile devices now
support trusted hardware, such as Trusted Execution Environments
(TEE)~\cite{TrustZone, TEE} and secure storage areas~\cite{eMMC-standard}, which
means the system has access to persistent, monotonically increasing counters
that can be used to prevent rollback attacks when overwrites do occur.


% =======================================================
\subsection{No One-Size-Fits-All Case Studies}

As recent advancements show that stream cipher based FDE can be implemented
in efficient manner, this opens up an opportunity for the storage layer to
support a wide variety of encryption technologies. Clearly, many case studies
show that there is no one-size-fits-all encryption, and some flexibility is
demanded. Below we present \numCases real-world case studies.

{\em Battery-life saver.} In the example above, in certain situations, the user
might want to prioritize reducing the total energy use. For example, while in
battery low mode, the kernel now switches to a more energy-efficient encryption
and pauses the offline cloud backup momentarily. Users might be willing to
accept this tradeoff and violate the ``backup at all time'' rule, knowing that
within a few hours the user will have access to power (no difference from
internet connection problem). This case study is pervasive \cite{hackernews-???,
many-more??}.

{\em Cipher upgrade without downtime.} From mobile devices, we now turn to
server-side storage that often require encryption upgrade \cite{some-citations}.
A server provider might decide to completely upgrade from a encryption
technology that has been broken into a stronger encryption technology. Ideally
during the switch, the server still can continuously serves users without any
downtime. However, without kernel-level support, the server provider must write
an application level software that performs the whole switching operation and
manually redirects users to the appropriate files.

{\em Select files.} Learning from the wireless literature, it is advocated that
certain files that traverse the Internet or wireless connection in particular,
should be encryption with a more secure way. Example of those files include
government documents \cite{citation-to-this-example}, credit card information
\cite{a}, \xxx \cite{a, b, c}.
